So I wanted to write a textbook on biological
oceanography, which was to comprise production
biology without fisheries. Fisheries is so large
a subject, and there is so much known about that.
And the production biology of the plankton and of
the benthos, and touch upon biogeography, which,
as I mentioned earlier, is a very important part of
biological oceanography. But at Scripps, then, I
very early saw that, for practical reasons, To
finish half of it before it's getting outdated, I
would have to split it into two volumes, and so I
split Bentos and Biogic, or Geography, off, and
then, when leaving Scripps, thought of a book on
Plankton.
But, and I write the other book later, but now after
hiring Jumas, I realize now how little I know in
benthos that I'm just completely outdated and so I
will not attempt benthos so that I'm left with the
plankton which is alright but again for practical
reasons the field has grown so much that I think I
will restrict myself now to a phytoplankton book
something like patterns of phytoplankton
distribution in space and time in the ocean or
something like that and then perhaps tackle the
Zohar Plankton later. And it ought to be written at
the next sabbatical eve, because now I know how to
do it. What not to do, I have made all the mistakes.
So let's hope for the best. There is no book yet, so
it is still worthwhile doing it.
The writing and the necessity to read now very
broadly again brought back my interest in methods
in plankton research. In effect, I wanted to pick
up numbers, good examples to illustrate my
points, and when thinking about these numbers,
which I'd used in class for umpteen years, when
thinking about it now, writing it down, I suddenly
saw it can't be this way. And it turned out very
often, no, because there were basic mistakes made
of data collection or data interpretation. I've
since then written quite a few papers, which have
made quite a few colleagues angry, perhaps,
saying that this is wrong and that was done
incorrectly. So in other words, I'm back to
plankton methods, not so much to say how to put the
hydrochloric acid into the vial, but rather
saying now suppose you want to find out such and
such you can't use this route you have to use that
approach or suppose you have this data you can't
interpret as people have done for 20 years in this
way no you have to think of this and that this kind of
method I'm interested in which in other words to
try to keep them honest really which still means no
shipboard work The polykit work I had already
alluded to is not really appropriate in an
oceanography department. I can't train
students, so half of my research work is done in a
field where the students can't emulate me and
where I can't get money for research support
either.
My continued interest in really evaluating data
which exists already, be it textbook writing or
worrying about methods, means not collecting new
data, that means not going out to sea, nor standing
in the lab. So the students really don't see me
work. And I think this is not very good. I don't give
them the example. which is too bad, that it's just
the way it is, but I do want to mention that part of
the academic teacher is to give an example. And if
the academic teacher is very nervous and always
has his door shut and works on data, the students
always wonder, well, shall we disturb him, shall
we not disturb him? That is not a good example.
Whereas Duckdale, for example, is always out at
sea, he meets his group every day over the coffee
pot, so there's a very different way of teaching,
and that shows in his students. But it's too bad. I
just had to finish these polygates, and as I said,
there is no textbook, so somebody has to sit down.
And then, of course, the newcomer, who has just
lectured twice about Balashur, thinks now he
knows everything, ought not to write a textbook.
As I mentioned earlier, I put my notes from the
early days in a textbook form but good that I didn't
start writing because obviously it couldn't have
had much depth.
If I now were to start active work again, then I
think it will be in plant production, in animal
production. As I mentioned, I know now how little I
know about the benthos. I don't think that I could
contribute much to the phytoplankton research,
and I think much is left in zooplankton research.
But in contrast to my earlier work, which was
concerned with distribution, I think now more has
to be done in the lab. Through the modeling effort,
well, because for the modeling effort we need the
coefficients. But through the modeling effort, I
also have learned what the problems are with work
at sea, with substantiating models at sea. And
here I agree very much with Dugdale, who continues
to go to sea to check his theories. I think because
of the... I'll put it this way. If you want to
test... our ideas about growth rates of
zooplankton, independence of food supply and the
effect of predation, we have to really come back to
the same population, revisit the same population
several times. But that can't be done in the open
ocean because of the currents. So in the open ocean
you always have to compound or always The open
ocean always compounds the time and the space
issue. And in order to verify a model or test a
model, you have to keep the space domain separate
from the time domain. And what you are interested
in is usually the development in time. So I feel
very much attracted now by, oh, I am convinced that
if we were to apply our model ideas and our
laboratory coefficients to natural waters, we
have to go to enclosures. We have to enclose the
water and thus then come back to the same
populations every day or every week, whatever it
is. Now, an enclosure, of course, is not an
entirely natural situation. but in the marine
domain but of course in freshwater a lake is a
natural unit and that is enclosed water so I have
now taught this during at the occasion of recent
job offers of going to limnology many of the
processes in water in plankton at least are the
same there's lots of literature to draw on and
shouldn't or might it not be that the important,
the next big step forward in secondary production
of plankton be made by the limnologists by virtue
of them being able to revisit population. So I
developed more and more interest in limnology,
which is of course easy because in the department
of zoology, he is an eminent zoologist, eminent
limnologist Edmondson, from whom I greatly
benefited. So there is something to be said about
lakes, but if I do not change the terminology, then
the next step would be to work on large plastic
enclosures, as they are now being developed in
several parts of the country. So the point being to
revisit populations and test whether you can
describe the future state of population from the
initial state, by means of a model, and then test
whether your prediction, the future state, is
correct. That is what I think is important. In
other words, I don't think that by going out to sea,
with a model as Daktil or without a model as Said, we
will get very far. But that is my opinion. And
I guess that is all. That is what I'm going to do
next, hopefully the textbook, and of course
continue teaching, obviously, along these
lines, and do something about secondary
production. And the key idea being to focus on
population we can revisit. Any regrets on how your
career went? Do you wish you'd made a different
choice along the way? No, I don't think so, no.
Well, of course, would I have to do it again? I
would, or if I have to advise somebody how to do it
better, is to take, having better training, more
mathematical training. That is where I'm very,
very weak, such that I sometimes can't read the
literature, leave alone do original work. And
nobody told me, how could I know? That is my great
weakness. But otherwise, no, no regrets. In
hindsight, these years in India seem to be wasted,
but then I discovered an upvailing area, so that's
all right, I guess. And some people have served two
years in the army and regard that as wasted. No, I
don't have regrets. And Seattle is very pleasant
to live. And so you're happy you opted for an
American university? Yeah. Although in
university life, of course, never things are
permanent. It's not out of the question that I
would go back to Europe, but it's unlikely because
I had several offers and each time there was a flaw
in the ornament.